READme.md, before:

# GradeBookApp

GradeBookApp is a comprehensive grade management system that allows educators to set up new semesters, add students, record grades, and calculate final scores. This application provides a user-friendly interface to manage grading policies, student records, and grade calculations efficiently.

## Features

- **Set up new semesters**: Configure the number of assignments, tests, and final exams along with their respective weights.
- **Add students**: Add new students to the gradebook.
- **Record grades**: Record scores for assignments, tests, and final exams.
- **Change grades**: Update scores for assignments, tests, and final exams.
- **Calculate final scores**: Compute the final grades based on recorded scores and grading policies.
- **Output grade data**: Display sorted student records by name or ID.
- **Persistent data storage**: Save and load grading policies and student records from files.

## Installation

To install and run GradeBookApp, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/siezer-5997/Instructor_Gradebook_App.git
    cd Instructor_Gradebook_App
    ```

2. **Run the application**: this will run the program which is the first python file to run
    ```bash
    python gradebook_app.py
    ```
## Test Cases
- Detailed test cases and how the app works is included in the PDF Test_cases_gradebook file in this repo.

## Usage

### Menu Options

- **(S) Set up new semester**: Configure the number of assignments, tests, final exams, and their respective weights. Ensure the total weight adds up to 100%.
- **(A) Add a student**: Add a new student by providing a unique student ID, first name, and last name.
- **(P) Record programming assignment**: Enter scores for a specific programming assignment for all students.
- **(T) Record test grades for all students**: Enter scores for a specific test for all students.
- **(F) Record Final exam score for all students**: Enter final exam scores for all students.
- **(C) Change a grade**: Update the score of a specific assignment, test, or final exam for a student.
- **(G) Calculate final score**: Calculate and update the final scores for all students based on recorded grades and grading policy.
- **(O) Output the grade data**: Display student records sorted by name or ID.
- **(Q) Quit**: Exit the application.

### Example Workflow

1. **Set up new semester**:
    - Select 'S' from the menu.
    - Enter the number of assignments, tests, and final exams.
    - Enter their respective weights ensuring the total weight is 100%.

2. **Add a student**:
    - Select 'A' from the menu.
    - Enter the student's ID, first name, and last name.

3. **Record grades**:
    - Select 'P', 'T', or 'F' from the menu based on the type of grade you want to record.
    - Enter the assignment number or test number if prompted.
    - Enter the scores for each student.

4. **Change a grade**:
    - Select 'C' from the menu.
    - Enter the student ID, grade type (P/T/F), and the new score.

5. **Calculate final scores**:
    - Select 'G' from the menu.
    - The application will calculate and update the final scores for all students.

6. **Output the grade data**:
    - Select 'O' from the menu.
    - Choose the sorting method (by name or ID).
    - The application will display the sorted student records.

7. **Quit**:
    - Select 'Q' from the menu to exit the application.

## File Structure

- **gradebook_app.py**: Main application file containing the `GradeBookApp` class and the `main` function to run the application.
- **gradebook.py**: Contains the `Gradebook` class which manages students and grading policies.
- **student.py**: Defines the `Student` class to manage individual student records.
- **policy.py**: Defines the `GradingPolicy` class to manage grading policies.
- **studentrepo.py**: Handles reading and writing student records to and from files.
- **policyrepo.py**: Handles reading and writing grading policies to and from files.

Commit message:

edited readme file to include information about what this repo containes for the project files including UML and use case diagrams where the OOP design of the project is based on.

READme.md, after:

# GradeBookApp

GradeBookApp is a comprehensive grade management system that allows educators to set up new semesters, add students, record grades, and calculate final scores. This application provides a user-friendly interface to manage grading policies, student records, and grade calculations efficiently.
- Designed an OOP-based system where instructors can set up courses, record and change student scores, calculate final grades, and display them.
- Enhanced administrative efficiency and accuracy in managing student performance data. 

![alt text](image.png)

## Files Included for the Project
- Python files of the gradebook program
- UML design diagram
- Use Case diagram
- Comprehensive Test Cases

## Features

- **Set up new semesters**: Configure the number of assignments, tests, and final exams along with their respective weights.
- **Add students**: Add new students to the gradebook.
- **Record grades**: Record scores for assignments, tests, and final exams.
- **Change grades**: Update scores for assignments, tests, and final exams.
- **Calculate final scores**: Compute the final grades based on recorded scores and grading policies.
- **Output grade data**: Display sorted student records by name or ID.
- **Persistent data storage**: Save and load grading policies and student records from files.

## Installation

To install and run GradeBookApp, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/siezer-5997/Instructor_Gradebook_App.git
    cd Instructor_Gradebook_App
    ```

2. **Run the application**: this will run the program which is the first python file to run
    ```bash
    python gradebook_app.py
    ```
## Test Cases
- Detailed test cases and how the app works is included in the PDF Test_cases_gradebook file in this repo.

## Usage

### Menu Options

- **(S) Set up new semester**: Configure the number of assignments, tests, final exams, and their respective weights. Ensure the total weight adds up to 100%.
- **(A) Add a student**: Add a new student by providing a unique student ID, first name, and last name.
- **(P) Record programming assignment**: Enter scores for a specific programming assignment for all students.
- **(T) Record test grades for all students**: Enter scores for a specific test for all students.
- **(F) Record Final exam score for all students**: Enter final exam scores for all students.
- **(C) Change a grade**: Update the score of a specific assignment, test, or final exam for a student.
- **(G) Calculate final score**: Calculate and update the final scores for all students based on recorded grades and grading policy.
- **(O) Output the grade data**: Display student records sorted by name or ID.
- **(Q) Quit**: Exit the application.

### Example Workflow

1. **Set up new semester**:
    - Select 'S' from the menu.
    - Enter the number of assignments, tests, and final exams.
    - Enter their respective weights ensuring the total weight is 100%.

2. **Add a student**:
    - Select 'A' from the menu.
    - Enter the student's ID, first name, and last name.

3. **Record grades**:
    - Select 'P', 'T', or 'F' from the menu based on the type of grade you want to record.
    - Enter the assignment number or test number if prompted.
    - Enter the scores for each student.

4. **Change a grade**:
    - Select 'C' from the menu.
    - Enter the student ID, grade type (P/T/F), and the new score.

5. **Calculate final scores**:
    - Select 'G' from the menu.
    - The application will calculate and update the final scores for all students.

6. **Output the grade data**:
    - Select 'O' from the menu.
    - Choose the sorting method (by name or ID).
    - The application will display the sorted student records.

7. **Quit**:
    - Select 'Q' from the menu to exit the application.

## File Structure

- **gradebook_app.py**: Main application file containing the `GradeBookApp` class and the `main` function to run the application.
- **gradebook.py**: Contains the `Gradebook` class which manages students and grading policies.
- **student.py**: Defines the `Student` class to manage individual student records.
- **policy.py**: Defines the `GradingPolicy` class to manage grading policies.
- **studentrepo.py**: Handles reading and writing student records to and from files.
- **policyrepo.py**: Handles reading and writing grading policies to and from files.
